small docs updates (#524)
ObolNetwork/obol-docs: docs/adv/troubleshooting/errors.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
description: Errors & Resolutions
---

# Errors & Resolutions

All operators should try to restart their nodes and should check if they are on the latest stable version before attempting anything other configuration change as we are still in beta and frequently releasing fixes. You can restart and update with the following commands:

```shell
docker compose down
git pull
docker compose up
```

You can check your logs using
```shell
docker compose logs
```

## ENRs & Keys

> ### What is an ENR?

Author: I moved it to the FAQs in the intro section

### Lighthouse gives the error `failed to request attester duties`

This indicates there is something wrong with your Lighthouse beacon node. This might be because the request buffer is full as your node is never starting consensus since it never gets the duties.

### Lighthouse gives the error `not enough time for a discovery seach`

This could be linked to a internet connection being too slow or relying on a slow third-party service such as Infura.

## Beacon Node

### `Error communicating with Beacon Node API` & `Error while connecting to beacon node event stream`

This is likely due to Lighthouse not done syncing, wait and try again once synced. Can also be linked to Teku keystore issue.

### Clock sync issues
Either your clock server time is off, or you are talking to a remote beacon client that is super slow (this is why we advise against using services like Infura).

### My beacon node API is flaky with lots of errors and timeouts

A good quality beacon node API is critical to validator performance. It is always advised to run your own beacon node to ensure low latencies to boost validator performance.

> Using 3rd party services like Infura`s beacon node API has significant disadvantages since the quality is often low. Requests often return 500s or timeout (Charon times out after 2s). This results in lots of warnings and errors and failed duties. Running a local beacon node is always preferred.
> We are not yet considering increasing the 2s timeout since that can have knock-on effects.

Reviewer: This is customisable now.

```suggestion
Using 3rd party services like Infura's beacon node API has significant disadvantages since the quality is often low. Requests often return 500s or timeout. This results in lots of warnings and errors and failed duties. Running a local beacon node is always preferred.
```

duty failed in the fetcher component since it couldn`t fetch the prerequisite
aggregated v2 committee subscription. This indicates the associated prepare aggregation
duty failed.

### `Couldnt propose block due to insufficient partial randao signatures`

`msgFetcherProposerFewRandaos` indicates a block proposer duty failed
in the fetcher component since it couldn`t fetch the prerequisite aggregated
RANDAO. This indicates the associated randao duty failed due to insufficient
partial randao signatures submitted by the cluster validator clients.

### `Couldnt propose block due to zero partial randao signatures`

`msgFetcherProposerZeroRandaos` indicates a block proposer duty failed
in the fetcher component since it couldn`t fetch the prerequisite aggregated
RANDAO. This indicates the associated randao duty failed due to no partial randao
signatures submitted by the cluster validator clients.

### `Couldnt propose block due to failed randao duty` 

`msgFetcherProposerZeroRandaos` indicates a block proposer duty failed
in the fetcher component since it couldn`t fetch the prerequisite aggregated
RANDAO. This indicates the associated randao duty failed.

> ### `Consensus algorithm didn`t complete`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `Consensus algorithm didn't complete`
```

`msgConsensus` indicates a duty failed in consensus component. This
could indicate that insufficient honest peers participated in consensus or p2p
network connection problems.

### `Signed duty not submitted by local validator client` error

`msgValidatorAPI` indicates that partial signature were never submitted
by the local validator client. This could indicate that the local validator client
is offline, or has connection problems with Charon, or has some other problem.
See validator client logs for more details.

> ### `Bug: partial signature database didn`t trigger partial signature exchange`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `Bug: partial signature database didn't trigger partial signature exchange`
```

key. If the private key lock file has a timestamp older than 5 seconds, Charon
will replace it and continue with its work. If you`re sure that no other Charon
instances are running, you can delete the private key lock file.

### `Validator api 5xx response: mismatching validator client key share index, Mth key share submitted to Nth charon peer`

The issue revolves around an invalid setup or deployment, where the
validators private key shares don`t match the ENR private key. There may
have been a mix-up during deployment, leading to a mismatching validator
client key share index.

For example:Imagine node N is Alice, and node M is Bob, the error would read:
` mismatching validator client key share index, Bob`s key share submitted to Alice`s charon node `
Bob`s private key share(s) are imported to a VC that is connected to
Alice`s Charon node. This is a invalid setup/deployment. 
Alice`s Charon node should only be connected to Alice`s VC.

Check the partial public key shares of each node inside
cluster-lock.json and see that matches with the public key inside
`node(num)/validator_keys/keystore-0.json`.

> ## Teku

Reviewer: Not sure if we should include Teku here, given that in CDVN we have Lodestar nowadays

Author: Ok, removed

Can be linked to a Teku keystore issue.

## Prometheus

### `Unauthorized: authentication error: invalid token`
    You can ignore this error unless you have been contacted by the Obol Team
    with monitoring credentials. In that case, follow [Monitoring your Node](../../run/running/monitoring.md) in our guides. It does not affect cluster performance or prevent the cluster from running.

## Docker

### How to fix `permission denied` errors?

Permission denied errors can come up in a variety of manners, particularly
on Linux and WSL for Windows systems. In the interest of security, the
charon docker image runs as a non-root user, and this user often does not
have the permissions to write in the directory you have checked out the code
to. This can be generally be fixed with some of the following:
- Running docker commands with `sudo`, if you haven`t [setup docker to be run as a non-root user](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/)
- Changing the permissions of the `.charon` folder with the commands:
  - `mkdir .charon` (if it doesn`t already exist);
  - `sudo chmod -R 666 .charon`.

### I see a lot of errors after running `docker compose up`

>     It`s because both Geth and Lighthouse start syncing and so there`s
>     connectivity issues among the containers. Simply let the containers run for
>     a while. You won`t observe frequent errors when Geth finishes syncing. You
>     can also add a second beacon node endpoint for something like Infura by
>     adding a comma separated API URL to the end of
>     `CHARON_BEACON_NODE_ENDPOINTS` in the docker-compose.yml.

Reviewer: We use Nethermind nowadays

```suggestion
    It`s because both Nethermind and Lighthouse start syncing and so there's
    connectivity issues among the containers. Simply let the containers run for
    a while. You won't observe frequent errors when Nethermind finishes syncing. You
    can also add a second beacon node endpoint for something like Infura by
    adding a comma separated API URL to the end of
    `CHARON_BEACON_NODE_ENDPOINTS` in the docker-compose.yml.
```

### How do I fix the `plugin "loki" not found` error?
  If you get the following error when calling `docker compose up`:

`Error response from daemon: error looking up logging plugin loki: plugin "loki" not found`.

Then it probably means that the Loki docker driver isn`t installed. In that case, run the following command to install loki:

`docker plugin install grafana/loki-docker-driver:latest --alias loki --grant-all-permissions`.

## Relay

### ` Resolve IP of p2p external host flag: lookup replace.with.public.ip.or.hostname:no such host`

Replace `replace.with.public.ip.or.hostname` in the
relay/docker-compose.yml with your real public IP or DNS hostname.

### ` Timeout resolving bootnode ENR: context deadline exceeded`
The relay you are trying to connect to your peers via is offline or
unreachable.

> 
> 
> ## Lodestar
> 
> ### ` warn: Potential next epoch attester duties reorg`
> 
> Lodestar logs these warnings because Charon is not able to return proper
> `dependent_root` value in `getAttesterDuties` API
> response whenever Lodestar calls this API. This is because Charon uses
> `go-eth2-client` for all the beacon API calls and it doesn`t
> provide `dependent_root` value in responses. We have reported
> this to them [here](https://github.com/attestantio/go-eth2-client/issues/35).
> 

Reviewer: This seems to have been fixed, according to the issue linked.

```suggestion
```
